♪ [music] ♪
All right, so we've got this
'Add To Order' button,
however, when I click it nothing
happens and then also,
if we take a look at the answer here, if I
change it from "Fresh!"
to "SOLD OUT!" you see that that 'Add To
Order' button actually just,
like, moves itself, animates itself, and
overlays the entire thing.
So let's actually build that 'Add To Order'
button first and then when you click it
we'll have to build the method that will
add it to our Order component here.
So we're going to go down to this 'button'
right here and the actual text inside of
that button can't just be "Add To Order"
because it changes from "Add To Order" to
"SOLD OUT!" so that needs to be a little bit
dynamic. We're going to go right below
this “const  = props;” and we need
to make a variable called "isAvailable".
And that's going to check if the
'details.status' is equal to “available.”
Right? And that's going to be a Boolean,
either true or false.
And then we need to make another variable
that is the "buttonText".
And if the 'buttonText' is Available it's
going to be "Add To Order" Otherwise,
it's going to be "Sold Out!". So let's go
ahead and take that 'buttonText' and we'll
add it down to this 'Add To Order'. And
we'll just pop the variable 'buttonText' in
there. We got an error here. Let's see
what we're dealing with.
SyntaxError: Unexpected token..." "isAvailable"...
'Sold Out!'...that's because I don't know
how to do a ternary operator. That's ":"
there. Probably yelling at me for that.
All right, load a sample fishes, good.
Look what happened. Sea Scallops by
default is SOLD OUT, so the text will say
"Sold Out!" and the rest of them are "Add To Order". And if I change one of them,
I go to my App component here and I find
the fishes, I open up 'fish1' and I change
it from “available” to “unavailable.” When
I change that state Pacific Halibut
changes to "Sold Out!". Good. Last thing we
need to do is we actually need to make
this button disabled when it's sold out
because you shouldn't be able to click it.
So what we can do is go down to this
'button' here and we'll say "disabled =
". So if the order is
not available it will be disabled and
React will just sort of toggle the
'disabled' attribute on and off and what
that will do is it will first make it
unclickable and then second I've used some
CSS here to say when the button is
disabled then change the color to that,
change the cursor to "not-allowed", as well
as I've used some animation to go in
between. Cool.
So we can't change it on the inventory
here just yet, we haven't built that part
out, but we do the same thing that we did
in our React dev tools by looking for our
App component, going to 'fish1' and changing
it to “unavailable” should animate itself
from "Add To Order" up to "Sold Out!" Good.
Now, next up we need to actually handle
the adding to order. Now where would we
create a method to add to order? Well we
already created a method of adding a fish
in our App component and we're also going
to be doing that for our add to order.
So let's go right down below our loadSamples()
here and make an addToOrder() method
and that's going to take in a key. Just so
I can show you what we're gunning for
here, let me take a look at the actual
example here. So our order state is simply
going to look little bit something like
this, where if we have a fish,
it's just counting the number of pounds.
So 'fish1' we have 1 pound,
'fish2' we have 4 pounds. And as I add
more of 'fish2', it's just going to keep
updating the number of pounds. And then
our JSX and everything is going to be
calculating how much we owe. If I add a
new one like King Crab that we haven't
added yet, it will just add it as 1. So
that's what our addToOrder() will do and
that takes in a key. We're just using the
key of the object fish1,
fish2, fish5, as our way to keep track of
that.
So, what we need to do is first take a
copy of our state. So we’ll say "const
order =", and we'll take a copy of it,
"...this.state.order". And again that is
an "object spread," which is essentially
taking a copy of the existing order state,
and then we will update or add the new
number of fish ordered.
So we'll say "order[key]”" and what is that
doing? Like let's say we were buying
fish1. We'd say "order.fish1 =", but we
can't say "fish1" because we don't know
which fish it's going to be. So it's going
to be 'key'. And it's equal to,
now this is a little bit tricky, we either
want to do "order[key] + 1". And what that
will do is it will check if we actually
have an existing order for that and add
1 to it or it'll just be 1. And what
that does is, let's take a look at an
example here, 'fish1' I already have one, so
when I add it, it's just going to
increment it by 1. However, when I add
something new, like Jumbo Prawns,
it doesn't have anything to add it to
because I've never ordered 'fish9' here so
it will just add it to 1. That's a
little trick you can do with the or
operator here.
And then finally we need to just update
our state. So it's "this.setState" it's
going to be "order" and that is going to be
order. Or we can simply just pass "order"
like we did with fishes. Good. Now we just
need to go back up to our constructor
here, and just as we did with loadSamples()
and addToFish(), we need to addToOrder() so
it is then bound. Okay, now let's see if
we can do that ourselves.
Open up our App component. And open up
your order state. Now if I go to my
Console real quick and "$r.addToOrder" we
want to add "fish-1". Now go back to React.
'fish-1' is at 1. If I were to run it a
couple more times, it's incrementing the
number of fish. But we don't exactly want
to do that, we want to actually do it when
someone clicks the "Add To Order" button. So
again, how do we get this method?
You're probably starting to see a trend
here. How do we get this addToOrder() method
down to our other component? Well we pass
it via props. addToOrder() method needs to be
accessible via fish, so we'll pass it
down.
So let's say "addToOrder = ".
Now when we see some of our fish being
loaded, let's take a look, you see being
passed down via Props is the addToOrder
function. Then we need to go into our
Fish. And when someone clicks on this
button right here, which is the "Add To
Order" button, we need to run
"this.props.addToOrder". So we'll say
"onClick=this.props.addToOrder". Now,
couple things here. First of all, how do
you pass an actual argument to addToOrder?
Well you can't just do this. You might
think okay I'll just do that and I'll pass
it something like "fish-1". But that will
actually run on page load and we don't
want it to happen on page load, we want it
to happen when someone clicks the button.
So the way that we can do that is, there's
a couple ways here,
we could say
"this.props.addToOrder.bind(null)" and you
want to pass it whatever key you want,
like "fish-1". But that's...
I feel like I've lost you. That's a bit
tough. So what I prefer to do,
is we'll do an arrow function in line,
which will allow us to have this much
nicer syntax here where we pass it
something like "fish-1". Okay so that makes
sense. And let's just hardcode "fish-1" here
for a second and see if that works.
So, we'll open up our App component, we'll
open up our order, load some fish,
and then when I add...look it, add add add
add add, it's adding fish-1 every single
time. But how do I make that part dynamic?
How does this fish.js know what its key
is? And the way that we sort of do that
is, we need to be able to access the key
itself. Let's look at one of our Fishes.
See how we have this 'key' value here?
However, you cannot access the key inside
of a component. Like,
look, we passed it down right here,
however, you can't access it when we're in
here. So if you need to access it, you
need to explicitly pass it down.
The key? That's not for you. You shouldn't
ever touch the key.
It's not going to let you. So if you need
that value to be passed down,
you need to pass it down yourself via any
Prop that you make up.
So I'm going to make one up called "index".
And I'm going to pass it down as a key.
So it might look a little weird because
you're passing down the same thing.
But "index" is for you, "key" is for React to
work with it.
And if I refresh this and I take a look at
my Fish, you see look,
okay now the 'index' is being passed down. I
should be able to just go in here and
replace the string of "fish-1" with the
actual "this.props.index".
Or even better, I could just pass an "index"
and we'll go back up here and make an
'index' variable that will pull it off of
'this.props'. So that's the same thing this,
if you're a little bit confused by that,
it's the same thing as doing this: "const
details = this.props.details" and "const
index = this.props.index". So this is ES6
destructuring, I've got many videos on
that, and that just saves us from writing
two extra lines. Or if you've got, like,
six or seven things you need to pull off
Props you can always do it in one line. So
let's give it one last shot here.
Open up our App, open up our Fishes, and
our order. Load them in.
State fish is good. We got our order here.
Now when I add two...one, one, one.
Good. Now let's look at
how we can display our order.